# Automation Demo

This is a very simple demo application to showcase Robot Framework, Selenium2, Requests Library, and the Page Object Design Pattern.  See the Robot Framework [User Guide](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html) for more detailed information on the Framework.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. 

### Prerequisities

* Python 2.7.12
* PIP
* Chrome Version 59.0.307.1.115 or lower
* Mac OS X: [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)


Python 2.7.1 should be installed on the Mac out of the box.  You must not install Python 3.0 as the Selenium2Library is not fully compatible with Python 3.0 at this time.

Disabling auto updates in Chrome is also helpful as there is an issue with version 60.0.3112.90 that causes browser tabs to load slowly.  Version 59.0.307.1.115 is currently the best version to use with this suite.

### Installing on Mac OS X

Check Python installation

```
python --version
```

Install Robot Framework

```
pip install -U robotframework
```

Install Selenium2Library

```
pip install -U robotframework-selenium2Library
```

Install ChromeDriver via Homebrew

```
brew install chromedriver
```

Install Requests Library
```
pip install -U requests
```

```
pip install -U robotframework-requests
```


Install Pycharm with Intellibot Plugin which provides support for RobotFrameework


Robot Framework test cases are created in files and directories, and they are executed by giving the path to the file or directory in question to the selected runner script. The path can be absolute or, more commonly, relative to the directory where tests are executed from. 

Test execution is setup to utilize the arguments file.  To run all tests for a given project, you should be in the parent directory of the project.  Update the Args.robot file to modify any arguments to be passed at runtime.  

Execute the following:

```
robot -A Demo/Args.robot  Demo
```

To only run a subset of tests, tag the tests and then add the include arg to the arguments file:

```
--include smoke
```


### Command line output

The output from the test execution will be displayed in the command line.  For example:
```
==============================================================================
Demo.Tests
==============================================================================
Demo.Tests.Home :: Verifies the Elements on the Home Page                                                           | PASS |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Portal.Login.Valid Login :: A test suite with a single test for va... | PASS |
1 critical test, 1 passed, 0 failed
1 test total, 1 passed, 0 failed
==============================================================================
Demo.Tests.Home                                                         | PASS |
7 critical tests, 7 passed, 0 failed
7 tests total, 7 passed, 0 failed
==============================================================================
Demo.Tests                                                               | PASS |
7 critical tests, 7 passed, 0 failed
7 tests total, 7 passed, 0 failed
==============================================================================

Output:  /path/to/output.xml
Log:     /path/to/log.html
Report:  /path/to/report.html
```

The command line output is very limited, and separate output files are normally needed for investigating the test results. As the example above shows, three output files are generated by default. The first one is in XML format and contains all the information about test execution. The second is a higher-level report and the third is a more detailed log file. 

## Versions

* Python 2.7.12
* Chrome 59.0.3071.115
* Chromedriver 2.29.461591
* RobotFramework 3.0.1
* Selenium2Library 1.8.0
* Requests Library 0.4.7
